---------------------------------------
BasicLock 1.1
for the MSX system
(c) 1997,1998 A&L Software
---------------------------------------

* Contents

  1.Purpose
  2.Protections
  3.Using
  4.Security
  5.Registering
  6.The author

* Purpose

  The purpose of BasicLock is to
difficult or deny the access to the
BASIC code of a BASIC program.
  By choosing the protection options
you can "lock" your BASIC program.

* Protections

  Firstly, BasicLock save your BASIC
program in binary form, so it can be
loaded and executed by the "BLOAD ,R"
command. By the way it's saved, you
can't list the program after just
loading it by the BLOAD command.
  And more: to lock your program,
BasicLock offers you 7 options of
protection, that can be used alone or
together. They are:

  - Lock LIST command:
    after executed, the program can't
    be listed

  - Lock CONTROL+STOP key:
    after executed, the program can't
    be stopped by pressing CONTROL
    and STOP keys together

  - Lock special keys:
    after executed, the program can't
    be stopped by pressing SHIFT, CODE,
    GRAPH and CONTROL keys together

  - Lock BASIC escape:
    if your program stop by an error,by
    an instruction or any other event
    the MSX is automatically rebooted.
    This option can be used with option
    option "Clear memory on reset" for
    better protection

  - Hide BASIC code:
    criptographs you BASIC code before
    saving it in binary format. It's
    useful for hiding copyright
    messages or texts in the BASIC
    program

  - Clear memory on reset:
    If the MSX is rebooted after the
    program is executed, the program
    will be erased from memory

  - Clear memory at end:
    If the control returns to BASIC
    the program will be erased from
    memory immediately

* Using

  Execute BasicLock by typing at the
MSX-DOS (1 or 2) prompt:

  BASLOCK

  Type in the name of the program you
want to lock. If you just hit RETURN,
BasicLock will be ended.
  Select the protection options you 
want on the program with the cursor 
keys and space bar. You can hit the ESC
key to abort the program.
  To really lock the program, choose
the last option. The program will be
locked and you will see the progress or
fail on the screen bottom.

* Security

  Any protection method is not perfect, 
and neither BasicLock. It can give 
security to your program against ASCII 
crackers, beginners and high-level 
language programmers, but not against 
good Z80 programmers/crackers.
  Sorry! Nothing is perfect!

* Registering the program

  BasicLock is not free. BasicLock is
"programware". What does it mind? It
minds that if you like BasicLock and
use it, you must register it by sending
me an MSX program, freeware or 
shareware. It can be any program,
including a program made by yourself.
  By doing it you will receive the last
version of BasicLock and will have all
the support on it.

* The author

  BasicLock is copyright (c) by 1997,98
A&L Software.
  To contact us for critics, comments,
sugestions and (of course!) registering
write to:

  alsoft@usa.net       
  
  Or visit our MSX page at:

  www.adrpage.cjb.net/msx.html
